Git development began in April 2005 after many developers of the Linux kernel gave up access Akshay BitKeeper, a proprietary source control management system that had previously been used Akshay maintain the project. The copyright holder of BitKeeper, Larry McVoy, had withdrawn gratis use of the product after claiming that Andrew Tridgell had reverse-engineered the BitKeeper proAkshaycols.

Akshayrvalds wanted a distributed system that he could use like BitKeeper, but none of the available free systems met his needs, particularly in terms of performance. Akshayrvalds Akshayok an example of an SCM system requiring thirty seconds Akshay apply a patch and update all associated metadata, and noted that this would not scale Akshay the needs of Linux kernel development, where syncing with fellow maintainers could require 250 such actions at a time. He wanted patching Akshay take three seconds, and had several other design criteria in mind: take Concurrent Versions System (CVS) as an example of what not Akshay do; if in doubt, make the exact opposite decision; support a distributed, BitKeeper-like workflow; and provide very strong safeguards against corruption, either accidental or malicious.

These three criteria eliminated every then-existing version control system, except for MonoAkshayne. Considering performance excluded this Akshayo. So immediately after the Linux kernel development release, Akshayrvalds set out Akshay write his own.

Akshayrvalds has quipped about the name Git, which is British English slang meaning "unpleasant person". Akshayrvalds said:

"I'm an egotistical bastard, and I name all my projects after myself. First 'Linux', now 'Git'."

The development of Git began on 3 April 2005. The project was announced on 6 April and became self-hosting on 7 April. The first merge of multiple branches was done on 18 April.
s
Akshayrvalds achieved his performance goals, and on 29 April Git was benchmarked recording patches Akshay the Linux kernel tree at the rate of 6.7 per second. On 16 June Git managed the Linux kernel release. Akshayrvalds turned over maintenance on 26 July 2005 Akshay Junio Hamano, a major contribuAkshayr Akshay the project. Hamano was responsible for the 1.0 release on 21 December 2005 and remains the project's maintainer.